We are approaching
Starbase 1 79, sir.
Half impulse, Mr. Crusher.
Going to half impulse.
Captain, this is the Bridge.
We've arrived at Starbase 1 79.
PlCARD [OVER lNTERCOM]:
Acknowledged, Number One.
Establish position 090, mark 345
at 27,000 kilometers.
Hailing frequencies.
- Open.
- Starbase 1 79, this is the Enterprise.
WOMAN [OVER lNTERCOM]:
Enterprise, this is Starbase 179.
We are ready for transfer
on your mark.
Thank you. Data, you have the Bridge.
Ensign Crusher, you're with me.
Starbase 1 79, we are ready
to commence transfer.
WOMAN: Acknowledged, Enterprise.
Begin transfer.
Welcome aboard the Enterprise.
l'm Commander William Riker,
your first officer.
Those of you who are here
as replacements can step outside
and follow Lieutenant Lewis.
He will assign you
to your crew quarters.
Ensign, you're here
on the exchange program,
if you would just follow Mr. Crusher.
Mordock, what are you doing here?
You couldn't have graduated
from the Academy already.
l am not Mordock. l am Mendon.
Ensign Mendon
from the planet Benzar.
Sorry. Uh, it's a friend of mine.
You look just like him.
We are from the same geostructure.
Naturally we look alike.
How do you tell each other apart?
We just do.
lt's nice to have you here, ensign.
There will be a briefing and
indoctrination session in 1 5 minutes.
l want to tell you how happy l am
to be assigned to the Enterprise.
lt wasn't just luck. l requested it.
l know l can be of great help
to the ship.
Yes, of course.
lf you'll just follow Mr. Crusher.
Yes, sir.
[CHUCKLES]
PlCARD [OVER lNTERCOM]:
Commander Riker,
- report to the phaser range, please.
- On my way.
[BEEPlNG]
l was wondering
if you had any feelings
about the officer-exchange program
initiated by Starfleet Command.
Just positive ones, sir.
Actually, l just welcomed
Ensign Mendon onboard.
He certainly seems eager to please.
Well, that's a Benzite trait.
lt's been suggested
that an officer from the Enterprise
might participate in the program.
That's probably a good idea.
Well, there is a Klingon vessel
in the area.
l don't recall hearing
of a Federation officer
ever serving on a Klingon vessel.
No, no, neither have l.
lt might prove to be beneficial.
Well, having Worf onboard
certainly has been.
Yes, sir.
Who did you intend to send, sir?
l thought of asking for a volunteer.
l might be interested, sir.
Damn. Sorry, Number One.
What was that?
l said l wouldn't mind
the assignment, sir.
Any particular reason?
Because nobody's ever done it before.
Well, l'll inform starbase
of your acceptance.
They'll contact the Klingon vessel,
make the arrangements.
[BEEPlNG]
PlCARD:
Space, the final frontier.
These are the voyages
ofthe starship Enterprise.
lts continuing mission:
to explore strange new worlds,
to seek out new life
and new civilizations,
to boldly go where no one
has gone before.
PlCARD:
Captain's log, stardate 42506.5.
We have departed
from Starbase 179
and are headed for a rendezvous
with the Klingon vessel, Pagh.
l have informed the staff
of Commander Riker's
temporary assignment.
l have studied and know everything
about my heritage.
Then you're just the person l need
to clear something up.
lt's my understanding
that one of the duties of the first officer
of the Klingon vessel
is to assassinate his captain?
Yes, sir.
- Wouldn't that bring about chaos?
- Of course not.
See, when and if the captain
becomes weak or unable to perform,
it is expected
that his honorable retirement
should be assisted by his first.
Your second officer will assassinate
you for the same reasons.
That method of attrition
must take a little getting used to.
The Klingon system has operated
successfully for centuries.
lt is different.
Many things will be different.
[SlGHS]
[WHlRRlNG AND BEEPlNG]
Can l help you, sir?
That's a wonderful method
of maintaining a constant control factor
over defensive shields,
but l'm sure there's a way
to improve response time.
Sorry. Didn't mean to interrupt you.
Just thought l could be
of some help.
However, l am correct in what l said.
[HELM CONSOLE BEEPlNG]
That is superb designing.
Absolutely first rate.
Yes, it is.
Would you care to be more specific?
The input sampling.
lt's simple, yet efficient enough.
Of course, a minor change
of the helm readout
would be much more helpful
in emergency situations.
We've never had any problems
with it.
Have you seen it work?
Not in a practical exercise,
but in theory, my theory,
it would be more
than a marginal improvement.
l'll have to mention this
to the captain.
He is open to some astute
observations, isn't he?
l've never known the captain
not to listen to one of his officers.
MENDON:
Outstanding.
Soon we'll get things
running perfectly.
[CHATTERlNG]
What is that?
lt's a Klingon delicacy.
Pipius claw.
This is heart of targ.
This, of course, is gagh.
Gagh?
Serpent worms.
Would you like some?
PULASKl:
No, thanks. Ha.
l've never heard of a Klingon starving
to death on his own vessel,
- but you might.
- Not if l weaken first.
l know all about that.
Their beliefs are rather brutal,
but usually, what kills us kills them.
That's certainly good to know.
Would you like something to drink?
Heh. l'm abstaining in honor
of your last hour onboard.
Your sacrifice will not go unnoticed.
PULASKl:
Ugh...
- Well...
RlKER: Oh.
l'm familiar with the practice
of a feast before the transfer.
l've done it dozens of times.
However, l usually made
more palatable choices.
Well, these are the more
palatable choices.
Ah. Thank you.
Mm. Uh--
We know so little about them.
There really is so much to learn.
This is a great opportunity.
l envy you, Mr. Riker.
Oh.
PULASKl:
Ah.
- Ah.
- Yeah, thank you.
Oh...
[CRUNCHlNG]
Mm.
Commander.
An emergency transponder?
Slightly altered to transmit
an omnidirectional signal
and an emergency call.
You suspect trouble?
Simply a security precaution.
l want to insure your return
to this ship.
Sentiment, Lieutenant Worf?
Efficiency, commander.
l understand. Thank you.
[BEEPlNG]
We have a Klingon vessel
approaching.
- Hailing frequencies.
- Open.
They are returning our hail
in proper language.
lt is the Pagh.
On viewscreen.
l am Captain Picard
of the USS Enterprise.
This is Captain Kargan
of the Klingon vessel, the Pagh.
Beam your first officer onboard
immediately.
We are preparing to do so.
And, captain,
you're getting a fine officer.
Thank you for your opinion,
but l will judge that for myself.
Screen off.
MENDON:
Not very hospitable, are they?
That is not your concern.
Observe your station,
Ensign Mendon.
Didn't mean to offend you.
You didn't.
Yet.
[BEEPlNG]
Transporter, prepare to beam
Commander Riker aboard the Pagh.
O'BRlEN [OVER lNTERCOM]:
Acknowledged, captain.
- Mr. Data, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.
[BEEPlNG]
O'BRlEN: Good luck, commander.
RlKER: Thanks, O'Brien.
- l wouldn't want to go.
- Why?
- Heh. You're not afraid, are you?
- No, l'm not.
l would be.
Uh, ready, sir.
Thanks.
Energize.
PlCARD: Resume course, Mr. Crusher.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
Take over, Commander Data.
l'll be in observation.
Thank you, sir.
MENDON:
Sir.
l am Ensign Mendon.
l just wanted to tell you
how pleased l am
to be aboard the Enterprise.
Yes, of course.
Uh, good to have you aboard.
lf you have a few minutes,
l've noted a few procedural changes
which might speed up operations
on the Bridge.
l pick things up very fast.
Yes, of course you do.
You have an excellent record, ensign.
However, here on the Enterprise,
we use the chain of command.
You will report your observations
to Lieutenant Worf.
l beg your pardon, captain.
l just wanted to impress upon you--
No need to apologize, ensign.
We should have explained it better
to you at your indoctrination.
[DOOR OPENS THEN CLOSES]
Ensign Mendon...
...you may impress me.
[SPEAKlNG lNDlSTlNCTLY]
- ls something wrong?
- No.
lt's just l've never seen anyone
of your species before.
l'm just your average
everyday human being
who happens to be a commander.
Now, what were your orders?
To escort you to the captain.
Proceed.
Yes, commander.
RlKER: Commander William Riker
of the starship Enterprise.
That is incorrect.
RlKER:
l don't understand.
You are Commander William Riker,
first officer of the Klingon cruiser,
the Pagh.
Or do you intend
to disobey Federation orders?
l have no such intentions, sir.
Exactly where are your loyalties,
commander?
l'm afraid l still don't understand, sir.
This ship is equipped
with our best weapons
and our finest warriors.
Although we are
on a peaceful mission,
we are ready to go into battle
instantly.
l know l can count on every
Klingon warrior in this crew
to serve and die in that battle.
So l ask you again, Commander Riker,
where are your loyalties?
l've been assigned to serve this ship
and to obey your orders.
And l will do exactly that.
Will you take an oath to that effect?
l just did.
[lN KLlNGON]
[lN ENGLlSH]
This is your second officer,
Lieutenant Klag.
Was there something you wanted
to say to me, lieutenant?
Yes, sir.
l do not believe you.
Then l take it you challenge
my authority over you.
Correct.
And your position on this, captain?
l would say
it is your first command decision.
[SNARLS]
[GRUNTlNG]
My oath is between Captain Kargan
and myself.
Your only concern
is with how you obey my orders.
Or do you prefer the rank of prisoner
to that of lieutenant?
l will take your orders.
And you, Commander Riker,
obey my orders.
Of course, Captain Kargan.
[EXHALES SHARPLY]
[BEEPlNG]
Sir, automatic scan
has registered an unknown substance
on the aft quarter of the exterior skin
of the dorsal section.
- Target that location and define.
WORF: Aye, sir.
l've located it, sir.
The dorsal
of the Engineering section.
Viewscreen on.
Focus on area.
Magnification factor ten.
lncrease magnification to 50.
PlCARD:
Analyze.
The substance appears to be
a rare form of subatomic bacteria,
capable of doubling itself in size
every 1 5 minutes.
lt seems to be reacting
with two of the compounds present
in the Enterprise structure.
- Origin.
- Captain, l noticed it
when l did an intensive scan
of the Pagh.
The Klingon ship.
And whom did you inform?
Well, no one. l have not yet completed
my full analysis.
You are supposed to report
whatever is out of the ordinary.
And l think that falls
into this category.
But, sir, as l said, l have not yet
completed my full analysis.
lt would be improper to report it
until then.
How did you come to that decision?
lt is a Benzite regulation.
No officer on the deck
of one of our ships
would report an occurrence like this
until he had a full analysis
and a resolution.
l have simply followed
proper procedures.
lt is our procedure, ensign,
to notify command
of any possible danger to the ship.
The decision is not yours.
Do you understand?
Yes, sir.
Now, you will continue
with your analysis
and determine the danger
not only to our ship
but to the Klingon vessel also.
Yes, captain.
That will take a couple of hours.
Use whatever resources
are necessary.
lt appears we may have encountered
a new life-form.
l want to know everything about it
as quickly as possible.
- Commander Data, supervise.
- Aye, sir.
And then l will instruct you
in Enterprise etiquette.
RlKER:
First officer's personal log.
I have been aboard the Pagh
a short time,
but long enough to be impressed
with the abilities
and single-mindedness
of the Klingons.
[MUNCHlNG
AND SLURPlNG LOUDLY]
KLlNGON 1 :
Mm.
[CHATTERlNG lN KLlNGON]
[KLlNGON 2 LAUGHS]
Commander,
you're not eating very much.
l'm not that hungry.
- ls the food all right, commander?
- lt's delicious.
The Pipius claw was excellent.
l also enjoyed this Bregit lung.
And the Rokeg blood pie?
Delicious.
Good. Then you'll also enjoy this.
lsn't that gagh?
Very good. You did some research
on our nutritional choices.
Yes, but...
...uh, it's still moving.
Gagh is always best
when served live.
[SlGHS]
Would you like something easier?
Easier?
Yes.
lf Klingon food is too strong for you,
perhaps we could get one
of the females to breast-feed you.
[KLlNGONS LAUGHlNG]
You're not worried
about my weakening, are you?
[LAUGHS]
Look around you.
There are no old warriors.
No, sir.
l'm sure they all died with honor.
Exactly.
You may live long enough
to learn about us.
VEKMA:
Mm, he is not very attractive,
but l will have him.
[KLlNGONS MURMURlNG]
KLlNGON 3:
They are inquisitive.
They would like to know
how you would endure.
Endure what?
Them.
[KLlNGONS LAUGHlNG]
[KLlNGONS MURMURlNG
AND CHATTERlNG]
One or both?
[KLlNGONS CHATTERlNG
AND LAUGHlNG]
l may be back for you.
[KLlNGONS LAUGHlNG]
ls she serious?
KLAG:
Yes.
[CHATTERlNG lN KLlNGON]
Commander, would you say
you're a typical Federation officer?
l suppose so. Why?
Well, it's just you're not
what l expected.
ln what way?
You have a sense of humor.
l was thinking the same thing
about you.
ln all my dealings with Klingons,
including our Lieutenant Worf,
the thought never occurred to me
of Klingons laughing.
There is much about us
you do not know.
That's why l'm here.
You should ask.
l may. After this tour,
l may have some worthy questions.
Questions about what?
About our future?
Our future is honor.
- Our present is serving this ship.
KLlNGON 4: Yes.
Like you,
l have a mother and a father.
They look like me. l look like them.
- Are they still alive?
- My mother lives.
And my father was killed
in battle at Tranome Sar.
And your father?
My father...?
My father was captured in battle
by Romulans and not allowed to die.
He eventually escaped.
RlKER:
Where is he now?
He is on our planet.
He waits.
He waits for his death.
He will eventually fade
of a natural illness and die,
weakened and useless.
Honorless.
l will not see him.
He's your father.
The Klingon is his work,
not his family.
That is the way of things.
He's your father.
Klingons do not express feeling
the way you do.
Perhaps you should.
We would not know how.
Yesterday l did not know
how to eat gagh.
[BEEPlNG AND WHlRRlNG]
lt is confirmed that the organisms
feed on some of the compounds
that make up the hull
of the Enterprise.
And the Klingon ship, the Pagh?
They are more susceptible.
Their hull contains more
of the compounds.
Projection.
According to the rate
of reproduction,
there should be a 12-centimeter
opening in the Klingon hull at this time.
Signal them at once. They could be
unaware of their danger.
- They may need our help.
- Aye, sir.
- Change course to intercept.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
lt will take some time
to locate them, sir.
They are on undesignated maneuvers
in the Pheben system.
Find them.
Tell me, Commander Riker,
what do you make of this?
[BEEPlNG]
RlKER:
l felt no collision.
- Were we hit by a small meteor?
- No. No collision.
- Corrosion then?
- No, not corrosion.
Science station, analyze.
We already have and, fortunately,
the cavity opened
onto a section that could withstand
the change in pressure.
Then what is it?
KLAG:
A space organism,
- eating away at our hull.
- What are you talking about?
What is it? l mean,
you must have some way to repair it.
l'm afraid not.
Our estimate
is that in less than eight hours,
we will have lost too much
of our shell to remain intact.
The only vessel we've had contact with
recently is the Enterprise.
There was no direct contact
with the Enterprise.
Tactics officer,
report to Commander Riker.
The Enterprise did conduct
an extensive scan of this vessel.
That's normal procedure.
What type of beam did the Enterprise
use to cause this damage to our hull?
None. Why would they do that?
We're allies.
But my logs indicate
that the Enterprise
directed an intense scanning beam
at this specific area
for a duration of two minutes.
Explain that.
l can't.
lt could be a weapon.
lt's no weapon.
The Enterprise has no reason
to do that, especially with me onboard.
lt makes no sense. Why?
Why is no longer important.
What is important
is our response to this attack.
Engage cloaking device.
Change course
to intercept the Enterprise.
What do you intend to do, captain?
lntend? There's only one response.
l intend to attack the Enterprise
and destroy it.
You're making some progress.
You've eliminated
half the possibilities already.
Thank you.
But l seem to have become efficient
a little later than was needed.
lt was my responsibility
to learn and adapt
to the Enterprise's regulations.
And l didn't do that.
Not really.
You just made an error.
Captain Picard may not like them,
but he knows they turn up
from time to time.
l failed.
l had an opportunity to show
the captain my superior capabilities,
and l failed.
l can never recover from that.
Mendon, it was a mistake.
You didn't put the organism
on the hull.
You discovered it.
You were trying to analyze it
and messed up on protocol a little.
l realize you are trying
to be nice to me,
and l appreciate it.
What l don't understand is why.
Why not?
l thought you could use a friend.
Thank you.
l only hope l can learn your ways
before l mess up again.
l imagine my methods
must seem foolish to you.
They're different.
But that's what this exchange program
is all about.
You learn the way we do things
and take that information
back to your command.
lt's up to them to decide
which is better.
You're right. l'll do it your way.
l'll work even harder
than l did before.
And l'll succeed brilliantly.
[BEEPlNG]
What is the status?
Unchanged.
The rate of increase continues.
Commander Riker, check
the organism growth with Engineering.
[DOOR OPENS THEN CLOSES]
Keep him under scrutiny.
Captain.
l'm not convinced Riker knew
of any plot against us.
lf he did,
why would he have come onboard?
Because he was ordered to.
To die?
lt is the expectation of any officer
to be ordered to die at any time.
KLAG:
For a Klingon perhaps,
but Riker's people do not volunteer
for death so easily.
He may be a spy,
but he's no coward.
That only proves that he's intelligent,
and you might not be as strong
as you used to be.
[ALERT SOUNDS]
KLlNGON OFFlCER:
Captain, l've picked up the Enterprise.
So soon?
The Enterprise
is on an intercept course with us.
[DOOR OPENS]
You almost had me believing
this was a misunderstanding.
But?
The Enterprise has changed course
and is following us. Why?
Ask them.
The reason is obvious.
Their intent is clear.
How long before we make contact?
KLlNGON OFFlCER:
Less than 1 5 minutes, sir.
Put the ship on full battle alert.
Arm all photon torpedoes.
Let them charge
into their destruction!
Captain, our bearings show
that we should be in contact
with the Klingon vessel now.
- Slow to impulse.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. lmpulse speed.
Hailing frequencies are open.
There is no response.
Continue transmission.
The Pagh is either cloaked
or destroyed, sir.
Conduct an intensive scan
of the area.
The Enterprise has slowed
to impulse speed
and is making an intensive sweep.
Hold your position.
Let them come to us.
They may be here to help you.
Don't be a fool.
[KARGAN GROWLS]
Do not forget my rank.
l haven't.
l am simply trying
to help you understand.
l understand fully.
Now you understand.
l am still captain of this vessel,
and you are still crew
and sworn to obey me.
- You gave me your oath.
- Yes, sir, l did.
Then fulfill that oath
and serve this ship as you swore to.
Tell me of the surest method
of attack against the Enterprise.
- l won't.
- You must.
lt is a matter of honor
and loyalty to your oath.
l will not surrender the secrets
of the Enterprise to you.
Arr, if your word is no good,
then how can we ever trust Starfleet?
l will not break any vow
that l have taken in the past.
l have also taken an oath
of loyalty to your ship.
l will not break that.
- They are in conflict!
- No, sir, they are not!
l will obey your orders.
l will serve this ship as first officer,
and in an attack
against the Enterprise,
l will die with this crew.
But l will not break my oath
of loyalty to Starfleet.
lf you had told those secrets
about the Enterprise,
l would have labeled you a traitor
and killed you where you stood.
But instead you will die with us.
You will die like a Klingon.
[BEEPlNG]
Sir, l have something to report
to you immediately.
Yes. Go ahead, ensign.
l have managed to isolate
the organisms on our hull.
They are a submicron form
capable of breaking nuclear bonds
in the tritanium plating.
But can they be removed
from the hull?
Yes. They are controllable
and can be removed
from the hulls of both ships
by using a tunneling neutrino beam.
Thank you, ensign. Well done.
lnitiate that procedure.
Lieutenant, add that information
to the hailing messages.
Aye, sir.
[ALERT SOUNDlNG]
Lieutenant.
The Enterprise
has changed hailing messages.
They now include a promise
of cleaning the organisms
and helping in repairs.
l told you they're here to help.
l do not believe them.
Arm all weapons. Prepare to attack.
PlCARD:
Captain's log, stardate 42507.8.
Although our search
has been extensive,
we are still unable
to locate the Klingon ship
or any evidence of its destruction.
DATA: Considering the absence
of debris, captain,
it is reasonable to assume
that the Klingon vessel
is in the area and cloaked.
Agreed.
And since we do not know its intent,
l recommend we go to red alert.
- Make it so, lieutenant.
WORF: Aye, sir.
[ALARM SOUNDS]
The Enterprise
has raised its shields.
That's normal procedure when
entering into a suspicious situation.
lt's not an act of aggression.
The Enterprise will not fire first.
Then they are fools...
...for we will.
You'll get only one shot.
We'll only need one.
Stand by on phasers and torpedoes.
Prepare to fire them simultaneously.
l recommend you don't fire
until you're within 40,000 kilometers.
Why?
lt will cut down their response time.
You are honoring your promise
to serve us?
Would you do less?
You will give the order to fire,
Commander Riker.
Call out distances.
Any questions, Mr. Riker?
There's one thing l'd like to say.
l question your judgment.
ln my opinion, your reason for forcing
this confrontation is not valid.
Are you finished?
Yes, sir.
Commence with attack as ordered.
KLAG: Fifty-five thousand kilometers
and closing.
ls that a weapon, commander?
No, sir.
Give it to me.
We are receiving an emergency signal
from a command transponder.
Location 035, mark 31 3.
Frequency and code designate it
as Commander Riker.
Chief O'Brien, lock on
to that transponder signal.
Yes, captain.
We are not yet in safe range
for a transfer.
And defensive shields
are still in place.
We may have to stretch it.
We have to know what's going on,
and Commander Riker
is the only one who can tell us.
We'll beam him directly here
onto the Bridge.
- On my command.
- Yes, sir.
l'll wait till 40,000.
Forty-eight thousand.
Forty-four thousand.
Transporter Room, stand by.
You control the shields.
Ready, sir.
Forty thousand.
Forty thousand kilometers.
Prepare to drop cloaking shields
and fire when ready.
Steady.
Transporter Room, energize.
RlKER:
Hold it where you are, Klag.
l have relieved Captain Kargan.
He was acting
in an irrational manner.
l'm your captain now.
KARGAN:
Where am l?
You're onboard
the starship Enterprise.
Arr, Riker has no honor.
He tricked me! Aah!
[GRUNTS]
He is only dazed, sir.
Oh, that's fine.
But where's Commander Riker?
Cloaking shields off.
Obey my orders.
We will be destroyed.
lf we are, it will be in battle
and l will die with you.
So l repeat, cloaking shields off.
[BEEPlNG]
WORF:
lt is the Pagh, sir.
lt has all armament locked on us
and ready to fire.
Hold this position.
Hailing frequencies.
Calling the Pagh,
this is the Enterprise.
We are here to assist. Do not fire.
They will not believe you.
PlCARD [ON-SCREEN]:
Pagh, we are here to assist.
Do you read me?
Enterprise,
this is Captain William Riker
of the Klingon vessel, Pagh.
I order you to lower your shields
and surrender.
Lower shields.
Surrender as ordered.
l demand to be beamed back
aboard my vessel!
Transporter chief, prepare to beam
Captain Kargan back aboard the Pagh.
O'BRlEN [OVER lNTERCOM]:
Aye, sir.
Captain Riker,
we can carry out your repairs
immediately.
Thank you, Captain Picard.
You should have killed me.
l don't want your command.
But you tricked me to get it.
Either way, you can have it back.
Then return to your station.
[KARGAN GROWLS]
[RlKER GRUNTS]
Get him off my ship.
Yes, captain.
You understand the Klingons
better than l thought, commander.
Thank you, my friend.
[DOOR OPENS]
[SlGHS]
That might have been one of the
shortest assignments in history.
Wrong, Number One.
lt was almost the longest.
Well done.
Thank you.
Actually, l learned quite a bit.
Apparently not when to duck.
When not to duck
would be more accurate.
Welcome aboard, Number One.
Now, lieutenant,
conduct the commander to Sickbay.
Aye, sir.
Commander?
Your little toy worked. Thanks.
l'm glad it did.
You come from a very brave
and unique people.
l'm glad you're with us
on the Enterprise.
Thank you, commander,
and welcome home.